=Conclusions=
Previously to the project development, can be determined, this is the different levels of development in the field of information technology among different regions.

The most obvious way to minimize these differences is economic investment in this area. But taking into account the real context in which these circumstances occur (usually areas of greatest need) seems very difficult for these investments to become a reality.

Fortunately, in some cases, alternatives exist to reduce this
gap. This is precisely what was tried to achieve with this project. Simply not assuming as certain the availability of certain resources (in this case would be high speed Internet connections), the solutions can be made for being useful in more circumstances.

The main result of the project has been to create software that enables
multimedia communication (voice, text and images) using low-capacity networks, making an optimal usage of these.

Additionally, there have been some other useful results got in parallel to the main goal of the project. These correspond to the parts where more
difficulties has been found, particularly in the phases of libraries
compilation, used by the software, so them fulfill our requirements (see
sections 3.1.1 and Appendices C and E). The difficulties were mainly, due to lack of documentation and the presence of bugs. Now, this is well a well documented and publicly available process, published on the project web site.

One of the objectives of the project was to serve as a basis for development of other solutions. That is why it has been released with a license GPL.

The project has been focused on solving a very specific situation, but with some improvements and extensions, a tool adapted to (virtually) any environment, where a software of this type can be useful, could be developed. Some proposals in this regard are shown in specific Wiki page.